---
layout: post
title: Bug Log
date: 2021-01-03 17:09:00-0400
description: Bug Log. Also known as BLog hahahahaaaaaa
---

I hate making the same mistake twice because it means I didn't learn from the first time
I made the mistake. Of course, this doesn't apply to everything. Nobody expects you 
to be able to play the piano perfectly after making a mistake once - you have to 
keep on making the same mistake until you eventually learn better. But making the 
same programming mistake twice should be illegal. You'll end up spend
hours of your time trying to fix something that you've already fixed before. It's 
frustrating, painful, and, worst of all, you don't learn anything.

Most programmers would agree that they prefer not to encounter the same bug twice. 
I think most programmers would also admit that they have unfortunately encountered 
an identical bug more than once. However, the issue isn't that they didn't learn 
from the first time they made the mistake. They learned, but they just forgot about 
it after a while. 

Recently, I find myself in these sitautions a lot. I'll be debugging an issue for a
long time, and then realize that my bug is something I've encountered a long time ago.
It feels like I'm relearning all the bugs I made. Most times, when I encounter a bug like
this, I wish I had a book of bugs I've fixed in the past, so that I can reference 
them when I'm debugging something new. I decided to keep track of all the stupid and 
ridiculous mistakes I've made here, and I'll reference them when I get stuck in the future.
Obviously I won't post every single mistake I make, but I'm writing down some I think 
I'll encounter again in the future. 


#### Table of Contents 
1. [1/9/2021 - Don't forget to clip your images](#1/9/2021-Dont-forget-to-clip-your-images)
2. [12/8/2020 - Transpose is Different from Reshaping](#12/8/2020-Transpose-is-Different-from-Reshaping)
2. [5/4/2020 - Is GPU pronounced Gpoo?](#5/4/2020-Is-GPU-pronounced-Gpoo)

#### 1/9/2021 Don't Forget to Clip Your Images

Today I spent an hour looking at the outputs of a neural network that produces images. 
The image looks correct for the most part. It had the shapes in the correct place, but 
the colors looked noisy and incorrect. I was scratching my head for a while since I 
remembered to standardize my image too. I finally realized a while later that it was 
because I didn't clip the values of my image to be within (0, 255). Since it had values 
greater than 255, the color wrapped around and produced weird outputs.

#### 12/8/2020 Transpose is Different from Reshaping

I'm kind of cheating because I'm adding this bug a whole month after I found it. I was 
working on a Deep Learning project and saw that one of my losses wasn't being calculated 
correctly. Because of it, my network wasn't learning and it wasn't behaving correctly 
either. Well, I realized I abused the `torch.reshape` function. I had a batch of images 
of size `N x C x H x W` and I wanted to transpose it to have the shape `N x C x W x H`. 
Instead of using `torch.transpose`, I ended up using `torch.reshape` to change my batch 
size, which probably doesn't do the same thing. I ultimately still had another bug (I think)
but this was a big sigh moment for me.

#### 5/4/2020 Is GPU pronounced Gpoo? 

I'm pretty friggen sure I won't be making this mistake again, but this blog has to 
start somewhere, so here's my first bug/mistake. I was training a neural network on 
Google Colab, and my TA pointed out to me that my model was slow at training. Now, 
this was a very simple model so there was no reason why it would take a lot of time. 
Then, he told me that I didn't send my data and model to the GPU, which meant all
my training was done on a CPU. CPUs are much slower at training than GPUs. So basically, 
if I had used a GPU instead, all my training could have been done in a much shorter 
time than I had used. Anyways, here's my [tweet](https://twitter.com/MinoruNakura/status/1257450063607083008)
from when I made that mistake.
